# Learning CSS

CSS works with HTML to style the content of your pages. Imagine a box drawn around each HTML element in your rendered page. CSS allows you to give these boxes color, determine the height and width of each box, and apply different fonts to the text inside each box, among other things. If you're only writing own page CSS can be written directly into an HTML file with the use of a style element. Or, it can live in its own file with the use of an empty link element. This is especially useful if you're writing code for more than one web page and you'd like them to be styled the same way.

Each HTML element can be associated with a CSS rule with the use of a selector and a declaration. A universal selector targets all elements on the page. A type selctor targets elements with a matching name. A class selector applies to all elements whose class attribute has a value that matches the one specified after the period symbol. An id selector applies to elements whose id  attribute has a value that matches the one specified after the pound symbol. The child selctor applies to an element that is a direct child of another. The descendant selector applies to any element that is a descendant of another element (not just a direct child of that element.) The adjacent sibling selector applies to an element that is the next sibling of another. And the general sibling selector applies to elements that are siblings of another, although it does not have to be the directly preceeding element.

If there are two or more rules that apply to the same element, it is important to understand which will take precedence. If the two selectors are identical, the latter of the two will take precedence. If one selector is more specific than the others, the more specific rule will take precedence over more general ones. You can also add !important after any property value to indicate that it should be considered more important than other rules that apply to the same element.

If you specify the font-family or color properties on the body element, they will apply to most child elements. This is because the value of the font-family property is inherited. You can compare this with the background-color or border properties; they are not inherited by child elements.